Edits to Bash basics chapter (#383)
merely-useful/merely-useful.github.io: py-rse/bash-basics.Rmd

Here,
the computer's response is `/Users/amira`,

> which tells us that we are in a directory called `amira` that is contained in a top-level directory called `User`.

Author: Good catch - thanks.

We know that `/Users` is stored inside the root directory `/` because its name begins with `/`,
and that our current working directory `/Users/amira` is stored inside `/Users`
because `/Users` is the first part of its name.
A name like this is called a [path][path] because it tells us
how to get from one place in the filesystem (e.g., the root directory)
to another (e.g., Amira's home directory).

> **Slashes**
>
> The `/` character means two different things in a path.
> At the front of a path or on its own,
> it refers to the root directory.
> When it appears inside a name, it is a separator.
> Windows uses backslashes (`\\`) instead of forward slashes as separators.

Underneath `/Users`,
we find one directory for each user with an account on this machine.
Jun's files are stored in `/Users/jun`,
Sami's in `/Users/sami`,
and Amira's in `/Users/amira`.
This is where the name "home directory" comes from:

> when we first log,

Author: fixed

> Amira/  Jun/    Sami/

Reviewer: Can we make these lowercase throughout the book (to match what's written in the narrative up above)? Not sure how other chapters list them

Author: good catch - fixed.

> $ ls /Users -F
> ```
>
> Some people think this is convenient;
> others (including us) believe it is confusing,
> so it's best to avoid doing this.

## Moving Around {#py-rse-bash-basics-navigate}

Let's run `ls` again to look at what's in our current working directory,

> which is what the command shows if we don't ask it to show us anything else:

Author: :+1:

> This command is synonymous with the previous example.
> While you may see commands written like this,
> we don't recommend you use this approach in your own work.

> > This is because some commands take [long options][long-option]

Author: Added to `gloss.md` - thanks.

> 

Author: oops - fixed.

```

Instead,
we can use [wildcards][wildcard] to specify a set of files at once.
The most commonly-used wildcard is `*` (a single asterisk).
It matches zero or more characters,

> so `data/*.csv` matches all of the files in the `data` directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so `data/*.txt` matches all of the text files in the `data` directory:
```

Author: good catch - thanks

tells the shell that we want to use the output of the command on the left
as the input to the command on the right.
Putting it another way,
the downstream command doesn't read from a file.
Instead,
it reads the output of the upstream command.

FIXME: diagram of pipes

We can use `|` to build pipes of any length.
For example,
we can use the command `head` to get just the first three lines of sorted data,
which shows us the three shortest books:

```shell

> $ wc -l *.txt | sort -n | head -n 3

Reviewer 2: This is the first time our learners see an option that also requires an argument.  I.e. given the earlier discussion about options and arguments, is it worth pointing out that the `3` is actually being given to the `-n` option, not as input to `head`.

Author: Good catch - paragraph added.

  13028 sense_and_sensibility.txt
```

The shell prints the command it is going to re-run to standard error
before executing it.
This means that (for example) `!572 > results.txt`

> will the command's output into a file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will direct the command's output into a file
```

Author: :+1:

> > done

Reviewer 2: Previous line, 2472, `$datafile` should be `$books`
